Birds carry avian, or bird flu
in their intestines.
Wild migratory birds
are not affected,
but domestic birds get very sick,
and many die.
Bird flu spreads among people
through airborne particles
that enter the mouth or nose.
People cannot get it
from eating infected birds.
Only a few people have
been infected to date:
uncommon cases of poultry workers
who breathed in dust
from dried bird feces;
or a mutated version of the virus
spreading from an infected worker
to other family members.
Unfortunately symptoms of bird flu
resemble those of conventional flu,
sore throat, cough, fever, and muscle aches.
People with bird flu also
may develop life-threatening complications,
viral pneumonia, acute respiratory distress.
Because the infection is rare,
people have not built up immunity,
and up to 60% of
those infected, die.
This along with the ability
of the virus to quickly mutate,
have led scientists to keep
a very close watch on all known
cases wherever in the world they appear.